I'm kind of curious now about my
awareness of Richard Hamilton I mean is
work that I know from the late say early
70s I was aware of pop I mean pop was
the you know as a teenager growing up in
Manchester it was an aesthetic which I'd
you know which I could understand and so
I would look at pop books I read enough
to kind of understand Richard Hamilton's
place as perhaps the you know the The
Godfather of of pop and I remember
particularly in in in a book seeing
Hamilton's definition of pop and that
the 10 or 11 kind of criteria sexy
mass-produced disposable big business
glamorous that made a very big
impression upon me this particular work
by Hamilton this is the toaster it's a
screen print like that print has a coil
applied I knew at first probably round
about 75
I spent a book in Manchester Polytechnic
graphics department in the library and
in a pop-up book might have even been a
Hamilton book I don't know I became
aware what influence had had been on me
a long time later like 25 years later I
swear that day and and realized how much
it had influenced my own work what
distinguished this for me from from
other pop art works was that some I
didn't I didn't see any irony in it you
know I was I was aware enough to realize
you know when I was 20 that a lot of the
American pop art had had this degree of
irony and I didn't sense that in this
piece I sensed it more as a as an
acknowledgement and acknowledgement
through fine hour of the applied arts
and I sensed that Hamilton was in a way
Noli
that the design quality of dieter Rams
is original that the toaster itself and
in a way celebrating that as an everyday
object that that was kind of fulfilling
the the principles the the idealism of
of modernism in a real everyday
functional item and and then it was the
presentation of that in the kind of
context of a of a catalogue with a with
a text that was very much the text view
defined enough in the product catalog
and and I believe this is actually the
text is very much a kind of a little bit
of artistic working with with the
original product text and so it was
product design and it was obviously
photography and it was typography and it
was in a way the kind of graphic the
graphic work this use of foil here I
mean this day when I saw it in $2,000 I
was shocked I was shocked for myself I
mean it's so much like the use of
materials that that that I attempted at
factory records is exactly the kind of
thing I I would have attempted to do on
a on a poster for factory and that the
whole kind of sensibility of it I was
shocked when I saw it in 2000 because
I'd it's kind of like a blueprint to my
own work
you